If you're new to the concept of Multi-Architecture with Docker, or as we say Multi-Arch, that situation
is getting better every year. In fact in 2017,
if you go back to Docker's blog, they announce more and more advancements in the Multi-Arch solutions.
There's something called the manifest file that you can now look in the Docker commands. The manifest
file is essentially allowing you to have multiple images, one for each architecture of the same code,
built under the same repo in your registry.
On Docker Hub, for example, if you go to the Node repo, there's technically Multi-Arch support there.
Which means if you did a docker run node on a Windows machine, running Windows containers, or on a Mainframe,
or on a ARM device, you don't necessarily have to specify that unique from image
if you're wanting to run an image that has Multiple-Architecture support. That's pretty cool because
ideally, what Docker's goal here is, is that no matter what system you're on, no matter the architecture,
the Docker commands are the same. The Dockerfiles are the same.
There's this additional file called the manifest file that describes the different architectures that
are supported. Early in 2019, while Docker has just announced the ARM deal,
what they're really talking about here is that they're going to work to smooth a lot of this out, to
make these Multi-Architectures situations easier for us, so that we don't have to specify those manual
from image. And we don't have to specify manual build stuff in case we want to add Multi-Arch support.
In talking to Docker, I can tell you that in the future, what will happen is we'll be able to do docker
build and use the new BuildKit feature sets, and extra functionality there, to do Multi-Architecture
building, all in one shot, in one command.
So, that'll be pretty nice. Today, we can actually support storing these different images, for
different architectures, of the same code, in the same repo.
That's possible, but it's not as intuitive as it needs to be for us to get wider support. So, I know that
that's going to get improved. I haven't talked to anyone about this yet, but I'm hoping that we'll
get easier ways to tell what architecture is running in our images.
If you start playing with this stuff, you realize that one of the little issues is you can't have multiple
images, with the same name, that are different architectures, on your local machine.
If you do a docker pull Ubuntu, then you're going to get the default image for your platform.
Now, we have something called --platform that's
showing up in a lot of the commands that allows
us to pull, or run, or do things with images that aren't our default local architecture. That means
you could do something like docker pull --platform Linux/arm64 Ubuntu and pull down
the Ubuntu image for ARM on your local machine, even though you're not running on ARM. Then it would
just be called Ubuntu and every time you ran docker run Ubuntu, it would run that ARM image.
So, that's pretty cool, but it's also confusing, because it's not easy for you to see that in the interface.
I hope a lot of that helps. If you're interested in more of this Multi-Arch stuff,
there's a lot you can learn. I've given you a lot of links in these last few videos. In this video,
there's a link to DockerCon, talking about all the Multi-Arch things. In the previous few lectures,
there's links to other YouTube videos, specifically on ARM.
So, definitely check out those resources and videos on YouTube for more information about this exciting
time of Multi-Arch and Docker.